my name is peon ops the founder of
Ventura Suisse engineering and
watchmaking enjoy a worldwide reputation
and there certainly is no lack of vision
either take the example of the
scientists at hoffman-laroche in Basel
35 years ago they discovered the liquid
crystal technology and it's huge
potential without which electronic
products of today would be unthinkable
the advantages and the potential of this
technology became apparent to me at
first sight the precision of digital
displays had new standards a quantum
leap in comparison to mechanical
timekeeping it was the formula for
creating a modern watch and it should be
realized by the Torah the new technology
demanded radically new forms there were
no precedents and we had to search for
new solutions to accommodate the new
functions on a switch 9 coined the
expression micro architecture to better
describe a quest for ergonomic forms and
to avoid the arbitrary word design
modern time pieces required electrical
energy which is usually provided by
batteries and tore I wanted to take this
one step further in 2000 we invented the
world's first automatic digital watch
linking the LCD display with a renewable
ever-present source of energy the
movements of its only these actuate an
oscillating mass the inertia is
transferred to a generator and
transformed into electrical energy
we called our development micro
generator system or MGS in short today
10 years later
Ventura is presenting a further
milestone with the spark mgs the system
is now able to provide sufficient energy
to power an advanced microprocessor
and a high-tech LCD display composed of
250 controlled graphic segments the
functioning of the mechanism is both
impressive and beautifully simple the
inertia of the oscillating mass is
transferred by a gear to tension a
spring this spring releases its force to
generate this process repeats itself
some 70,000 times a day the energy is
then guided to an accumulator which
supplies a regular flow of electricity
to activate the liquid crystal segments
these segments are arranged to form an
outstanding typography in which none
other than Adrian Frutiger has
participated here you see the genuine
miniature power station a masterpiece of
Swiss watchmaking art not only is the
new spark mg s the most precise
automatic multifunction timekeeper ever
made thanks to the easy stroll operating
system of a single scroller no digital
watch could be easier and more intuitive
to handle honest veg time devised the
ingenious veg time king who integrates
the scroller in the case in such a way
that it disposed perfectly protected and
effortless to operate
a watch like this can only be made in
Switzerland when Torah builds timepieces
of the future because time cannot stand
still